---
layout: posts
title: "Frequently Asked Questions"
published: yes
---

##There are a few common questions that pop up consistently about our boot camps. This post should answer a few of them. If you have any questions not covered here, always feel free to email info@claimacademystl.com directly!

***

**What classes do you offer? Which one is for me?**

We currently offer classes in Java and .NET. Both are taught as frameworks based around a single object-oriented programming language (Java and C#, respectively), and include work with the full stack of development tools available for each framework, from databases, to web deployment, to object-relation database mapping, to version control, to unit testing, to security... everything that you'll need to succeed as a St. Louis developer!

Our classes are built around St. Louis jobs. If you're looking to make a career as a programmer, either class is for you. If you prefer using open-source tools with a bit more flexibility in the developer stack, you might like Java more. If you prefer using a framework that is heavily supported by a single company (Microsoft), .NET might be for you. Or, if you simply prefer Windows products to Mac or Linux, .NET might be for you. But there are plenty of jobs available to participants in either camp.
 

**What kind of jobs are available for Claim Academy graduates?**

Demand for programming jobs in St. Louis outstrips current supply by such a wide margin that companies of all shape and size are clamoring for entry-level talent. Many of the companies with the greatest need for entry-level talent are also the largest, and have the most resources to dedicate towards developing new programming talent. We've focued our curricula on the needs of many of these enterprise-level companies around St. Louis. 

That's not to say, though, that Claim Academy graduates would not be a good fit for smaller companies. In fact, the rapid pace of learning and wide variety of topics covered over the course of each boot camp would also prepare students for the kind of rapid, self-directed learning that smaller companies require from their development teams. While the needs of each smaller company vary too much for us to try to tailor each student's experience to each company's technical requirements, graduates from our program are perfectly capable of learning what needs to be learned at a smaller company quickly and enthusiastically.
 

**What is the weekly time commitment?**

We expect students to be spending around 60-70 hours per week on Claim Academy work. That includes daily lectures from 6pm-9pm Monday through Friday, guided mentorship time on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons from 1pm-3pm, pair-programming with fellow students from 3pm-6pm Monday through Friday, a full day of lectures, quizzes, project presentations, and guided workshops from 8am-5pm on Saturdays, and any additional time required outside of class to complete all assignments and projects. All class time is on-location at our downtown space at 515 Olive St. #600.


**What other classes will you offer in the future**

While the current demand is highest for Java and .NET developers, we are also developing classes in Javascript (using the MEAN stack) and Ruby on Rails. Keep your eyes on the blog and on your inboxes for more information about these classes as we build them.


**Am I a good fit for this program?**

If you're a self-directed and driven go-getter with a passion for learning and technology looking to change careers into a full-time programming position, we'd love to see you in class. 
 

**Do I need any previous experience with programming?**

It certainly helps to have a programming language already under your belt, but it's not a requirement. The strongest candidates will have already used free online resources to learn as much programming as they could in their free time, will have build a few basic applications already (in some language), and have the drive and motivation to spend lots of time in front of a computer learning a new skill. 

There are some candidates that excel in the interview process without that previous experience, though. The application process includes a lot of basic programming work, and if you can handle the challenges we send at you, you'll do just fine in the class and in your future career as a programmer. Give it a shot!


**Do I need my own computer?**

Yes. You will need a laptop that you can move easily between home and class. For Java, any operating system will work (except for ChromeOS/chromebooks), be it Linux, Mac, or Windows. For .NET, Windows machines are required, preferably running Windows 7 or later.
 

**What does the application process look like?**

<a href="claimacademystl.com/blog/2014/12/30/application-process/">Here's a blog post outlining the entire process in detail</a>. The first step: apply <a href="http://claimacademystl.com/html/signup.html">here!</a>
 

**Are there scholarships available? Financial aid?**

Yes to both! We have financing and scholarship options available. For more information about financial aid, simply mark "interested in financial aid" on your <a href="http://claimacademystl.com/html/signup.html">online application</a>, and we'll be sure to go over options with you during the interview process.

